---
id: web2
title: From WEB2.0 to WEB3.0
sidebar_position: 1
---

The trend we will witness is that the Internet will eventually belong to users. In the architecture of Web2.0, the back-end database, cloud storage and code logic are deployed in a centralized manner. The traditional Internet is a mainstream protocol based on HTTP. It specifies what messages the client may send to the server and what response it will get. We have little control over the client. HTTP is a stateless protocol, that is, the server does not retain any state when trading with customers, and cookies are also saved by the central server. As we all know, cookies are weak, easy to clean up, unstable and uncontrolled. Although the centralized system can be designed exquisitely and powerful, in some specific industries, such architecture genes are doomed to fail to grow. Two famous examples of failure are Google Health and another Microsoft HealthVault, which have failed one after another for about 10 years.

We are not disgusted with the method of giving personal data to websites and service providers free of charge through the user agreement and privacy agreement, and even take it for granted. However, we ignore that the money made by enterprises using user data will not be returned to users. Users have no right to obtain the remaining profits after the income covers the operating costs. This situation and trust crisis cause users to have no soil for sustainable creation. The future Internet must not be the behavior of companies "feeding" users, but the world actively created by users after mastering their own data assets. For example: brake browser, when users surf the Internet in the browser, the browser will recommend advertisements to readers and return part of the income to readers at the same time. It not only consumes users' data, but also creates income for users. There will be more such products in the future to allow users to participate in the operation of the company. In the process of upgrading and iteration of sharing economy, the boundary of the company is blurring. We will build a distributed business organization based on Dao and DAC. Anyone can build their own long-term career based on anonymous crowdsourcing distributed network and storage at any time. It is hard to believe that in the world of Web2.0, there are still people who will challenge Amazon's position with a small investment, but such possibilities can be seen everywhere in the near future.

Without the protection of assets and property rights, there will be no prosperous market economy. This most simple truth is very useful in various industries. Our assets, identity, NFT and any original knowledge, including the dynamic value of physical health and digital assets, need to be sorted and precipitated one by one, and given corresponding infrastructure to improve. Such an infrastructure is Web3.0.

To sum up, Web 3.0 has four labels: 1. Unified identity authentication system 2. Data rights confirmation and authorization 3. Privacy protection and anti censorship 4. Decentralized operation.

Ethereum is a point-to-point deterministic state machine that can be maintained all over the world, which makes Ethereum often called "world computer". State changes on the state machine are controlled by nodes in the network that follow consensus rules. It is actually designed as a state machine that anyone in the world can access and write to. Therefore, this machine does not belong to any single entity, but is jointly owned by everyone in the network. Adding data to Ethereum is very expensive. We can issue tokens and other financial assets on Ethereum, but it is not a complete "world computer". The storage of big data was once planned by Ethereum, but it still didn't appear on their schedule.
